---
layout: default
title: MALDUINO as a Potential Productivity Tool
author: Caleb Vredevoogd
date: 2020-10-01 14:40:00
---
Hacker/Tinkerer Seytonic recently unveiled his upcoming wireless MALDUINO,
or MALDUINOW (W for wireless). It looks like a fun gadget, but it also made me
think of my MALDUINO ELITE that I've had lying around for quite some time doing
nothing. I felt a little a bad even considering a new model when I hadn't put
its older brother to any use at all. I decided to change that.

For those who don't know, a MALDUINO is an automatic keystroke injector. In
English, it's a device that you can program to type preloaded scripts at
breakneck speeds. It's based on the Arduino and so you can go ahead and make one
yourself if you feel so inclined.

One of the main issues I had with this project was what to do with it. At a
glance the MALDUINO seems like a gadget made for pranksters, hackers and
systems administrators. I don't consider myself to be in any of those camps for
the time being. However, taking a step back, what if there was a part of my
daily routine that could be automated?

To cut to the chase, I have a USB hub on my desk that I leave connected to a
mouse. It makes handling all things USB much easier on my laptop with two type-A
3.0 ports and one type C port. The hub has an open USB port on it that I could
connect to my MALDUINO and just leave there. But what would I do with it? For
now, I have it open up Microsoft Teams, Slack and Trello on a new browser tab (I
use Brave, a Chromium-based browser).

However, this opens up a bunch of possibilities. Just ask the question: what
would you like to have up and open when you sit down at your desk? With a
MALDUINO you can automate practically anything you could do with a keyboard. So
long as it's the same things you need every time, having MALDUINO get your
desktop ready seems like a great way to jump right in and eliminate
distractions.

Of course I would like to offer a couple of words of caution. First off, the
MALDUINO sells for a little over $30, and that's before shipping. If you're not
a tinkerer, enthusiast, or have big ambitions, you might find it a bit pricey.
Second, I wouldn't advise you to use this for automated logins. I don't know if
there are any encryption options for this, so you would likely be storing
passwords in plain text. This is little better than writing down a list of
passwords and leaving them at your desk. Finally, using MALDUINO as I have
outlined might strike some as finicky. In order to get the desired effect, you
would need your computer be turned on and logged in (unless you want to
automate the login). The MALDUINO starts working as soon as your computer gives
it power, so unless you want to figure out the right delay to use before the
script kicks in, you need to wait until you're at the desktop.
